Headline: Seeking sexual favours punishable under new anti-corruption law 
Date: September 09, 2018 18:31 IST
Score: 20.227542221546173
  Seeking and accepting sexual favours can be considered a bribe under the new anti-corruption law with the accused getting up to seven years jail term, a senior government official said on Sunday. The Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 incorporates the umbrella term undue advantage, which means any gratification other than legal remuneration and also includes expensive club memberships and hospitality, the official explained. The word gratification is not limited to pecuniary gratifications or to gratifications estimable in money, says the amended anti-corruption law. The Act has been notified in late July by the Central government after getting assent from President Ram Nath Kovind. The 2018 law amends the 30-year-old Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, that covers instances of corruption by public servants. Under the amended law, investigating agencies like the CBI can now book officials for seeking and accepting sexual favours, expensive club memberships and hospitality or for providing employment to close friends or relatives among others, the official said. It also has the provision to punish bribe givers with a jail term of maximum of seven years. Before this, bribe-givers were not covered in any domestic legislation to check corruption. Senior Supreme Court lawyer G. Venkatesh Rao said the term undue advantage could mean any favours which are non-monetary, like expensive gifts or any kind of freebies, giving a free holiday or payment of airline tickets and stay. It would also encompass payments for any goods and services deliverable any other commercial entity too, like down payments for the purchase of property or movables and or payments towards memberships of clubs etc. It also includes more specifically sexual favours, which is the most reprehensible of all expectations, Mr. Rao said. Five years ago, the government introduced the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill, 2013 to expand the definition of bribery and to cover graft in the private sector. The term used to define bribery related offences then was “financial or other advantage“. In November 2015, some official amendments were moved to replace the term “financial or other advantage” with “undue advantage” to make “any gratification other than legal remuneration” punishable. The official amendments were moved after a Law Commission report in February 2015 suggested there should be a distinction between ‘due’ and ‘undue’ financial or other advantage. Financial or other advantage being interpreted using ejusdem generis, does not seem to cover sexual favours in return for the public servant’s acts or omissions. Thus, the proposed amendment is actually narrowing the scope of corruption, instead of the stated intent of expanding it, it had said in its report on the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill, 2013. A Parliamentary panel that examined the bill also endorsed the Law Commission’s stand in its report presented in Parliament in 2016. The Committee, however, notes that the Law Commission of India in it Two Hundred and Fifty-fourth Report (February, 2015) has suggested to use the expressions ‘undue advantage’ in the PC Act. The Committee endorses the aforesaid amendments proposed to Section 2 of the PC Act, 1988 under the Clause, it said. The Committee had also said it apprehends that the enforcement/probe agencies may misuse the said expression to harass public servant as well as members of civil society in corruption cases and advises that adequate precautions be taken in this regard. According to Mr. Rao, the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, was brought about with the intention of including all kinds of illegal gratifications under the microscope, in addition to monetary means of corruption. The expression undue advantage was previously used by the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which India ratified in 2011, he said. However, the term definitely needs more specific definition for courts to apply the law to individual instances, Mr. Rao added. Another legal expert Simranjeet Singh said the consequential effect of the amendment to the Act is the increase in the ambit of the term undue advantage. It must be therefore ensured that there is no misuse of the statute by investigating agencies, he said. This can certainly be ensured by defining the said term in a more definite manner to rule out any ambiguity, said Mr. Singh, principal associate at the Delhi-based law firm Athena Legal.


Headline: Corrupt public servants must be declared anti-nationals: High Court 
Date: March 29, 2019 01:21 IST
Score: 15.215396463871002
  Likening non-corrupt judges and public servants to the minority group of Pandavas in the epic Mahabaratha and the corrupt to Kauravas, the Madras High Court on Thursday wished the battle against corruption wins and the corrupt get declared anti-nationals because they obstruct the development of the country. Justice S.M. Subramaniam, in one of his judgments, said: “When it is realised that corruption is the obstacle for developmental activities of our great nation, what kind of designation one can offer. Certainly such persons are anti-nationals. When terrorists are declared anti-social elements, corrupt should also be declared as anti-nationals.”  “These anti nationals do not care about the development of our great nation. They are interested in their self-development alone. Nothing wrong in wanting to become rich,” he said.  “However, the process adopted for achieving one’s ambition or goal must not affect the interests of the nation and infringe the rights of co-citizens,” Justice Subramaniam added. “Thus, corruption in judiciary is the greatest enemy to the Constitution and judiciary must also initiate drastic measures in order to control corruption in various forms,” Justice Subramaniam added.  His general observations on all pervasive corruption were made while dismissing the plea of a suspended Village Administrative Officer (VAO) charged of corruption.  The judge said, almost every person feels the pinch of corruption right from the day his mother walks into a government hospital with him in her womb and it continues till his death.  “The worst form of corruption is that different amounts of bribe is demanded depending upon the sex of the child. After birth, parents have to bribe educational authorities in schools and colleges... It is unfortunate and painful to state that sexual favours are demanded in lieu of bribe in educational institutions and public offices... Large scale corruption, though noticed, are not prosecuted. For that also, bribes are offered,” the judge lamented. Pointing out that corrupt officials were functioning even in the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Justice Subramaniam said, corruption had become a way of life for many and therefore, it was high time, some emergent steps were taken to impart the importance of honesty, integrity and contentedness among the youth.


Headline: Rahul dares Modi to disclose BJP CM candidate’s record in corruption
Date: April 27, 2018 18:32 IST
Score: 9.496288061141968
  Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reveal to the public the “corrupt record” of BJP’s Chief Ministerial candidate in Karnataka. Referring to the charges of corruption levelled against the Congress government headed by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, Mr. Gandhi said the Prime Minister had no moral authority to talk about corruption when B.S. Yeddyurappa was the BJP’s candidate.  “How can you talk about corruption when your candidate has gone to jail for corruption?”, Mr Gandhi said while addressing a rally at Gonikoppal in Kodagu district. “Will you be able to disclose the record of corruption by your Chief Ministerial candidate?” Mr. Gandhi challenged Mr Modi. When Mr. Modi accuses the Siddaramaiah government of corruption, he will have Mr. Yeddyurappa standing by him on one side and four other Ministers of his erstwhile government, who went to jail, on the other, Mr. Gandhi said while seeking to expose the ‘hollowness’ of BJP’s accusations.  He said the Modi government had ‘renamed’ CBI into “Central Bureau of illegal mining”, which had given a clean chit to the Reddy brothers, who along with Mr. Yeddyurappa had ‘looted’ Karnataka of its wealth. Mr. Gandhi said the Prime Minister was afraid to face Parliament, lest he has to countenance the charges of corruption, banking scams involving people like Nirav Modi and the Gujarat petroleum scam. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who also spoke on the occasion, said he had also dared the BJP leaders to come for a debate on corruption. “But they don’t have the courage,” he said adding that the BJP was only interested in “spreading misinformation and misguiding people.” He sought to know how BJP national president Amit Shah’s son’s company revenues could see a meteoric rise from just Rs. 50,000 to a whopping Rs. 80 crore in one year. He said his government had instituted a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into illegal mining even though central agencies had spared the accused. Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC General Secretary in charge of Karnataka K.C. Venugopal and others were present at the rally. Rahul smitten by Kodagu’s natural beauty Mr. Gandhi has been smitten by the natural beauty of Kodagu’s landscape. “I have not seen such a beautiful place in India earlier,” Mr. Gandhi said before starting his speech at the Congress rally at Gonikoppal. Before winding up his address, Mr. Gandhi again referred to the hilly district’s fascinating scenery and regretted that he was leaving such a beautiful place in a short period as he was on an election tour. But, he promised that he would return soon and stay for one or two days and spend time with the people of Kodagu.


Headline: CM wants victims of corruption to speak up
Date: May 19, 2018 17:40 IST
Score: 9.312028884887695
  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the ‘victims of corruption and bribery’ to show courage to expose their tormentors and make sure that the corrupt officials are served ‘government food’ (in jail). He was speaking after launching a State-level pilot project for the online application for building construction permits that aims to cut bribery and speed up the process here on Saturday.  Mr. Vijayan said the courage of the victims was critical in fighting corruption. “If they are bold enough to lodge complaints with the authorities concerned, their tormentors will have to eat government food,” he said.  The victims should not sit back fearing some harm would come to them if they complained, the Chief Minister said.  Graft by employees Mr. Vijayan, who projected the new online application process for building construction as yet another initiative of his government to fight corruption, claimed that corruption was far less in Kerala than other States. He said that corruption on the part of people’s representatives had been wiped out. But corruption by government employees thrived, the Chief Minister said. Linking bribery to self-respect, he said that those officials who led a luxurious life using bribe money lacked self-respect. “Those who respect themselves and value their honour do not plunder others; they live within their means.” These plunderers did not command people's respect either. Employees warned Asserting that the new online building permit system was being implemented to mainly fight the large-scale corruption in the present system of awarding permits, the Chief Minister cautioned those who were already thinking of ways to bypass it. They would have to face the harsh consequences, he warned.


Headline: Union Ministers burn ‘monstrous holika’ of corruption charges
Date: March 21, 2019 01:39 IST
Score: 8.936165809631348
 Union Ministers Vijay Goel, Prakash Javadekar and Vijay Sampla burnt what they called the “monstrous holika” of corruption charges levelled by AAP and the Congress against each other, at Mr. Goel’s residence here on Wednesday. Mr. Kejriwal, Mr. Goel argued, had come to power on the plank of Congress’ corruption but today was “eager” to forge an alliance with that party. “Mr. Kejriwal has forgotten that he had promised to throw Sheila Dikshit behind the bars for corruption... he had even called her a ‘  [middleman] for power companies, besides alleging that she was involved in commonwealth games and water tank scam,” he said. “On the other side, the Congress, whether led by Ajay Maken or Sheila Dikshit, has been accusing Mr. Kejriwal of indulging in corruption naming the CCTV camera scam, the low-floor bus scam and ration card scam,” Mr. Goel said further. The Union Minister said it was “necessary” to burn the charges of corruption by the two parties against each other on Holi because Mr. Kejriwal had “failed to bring development” to the Capital in the past four years and a vote for him in the upcoming Lok Sabha polls would hence “be a wasted vote”. HRD Minister Prakash Javdekar said that people had high hopes from Mr. Kejriwal when AAP came to power. “Mr. Kejriwal has forgotten that he has not won even a single election after his victory in the Delhi Assembly polls,” he said. Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Vijay Sampla, accused Mr. Kejriwal of not implementing schemes such as Aayushman Bharat and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and depriving the people of Delhi from their benefits. “Mr. Kejriwal and Congress have become the synonyms of corruption,” he alleged.


Headline: Rahul seeks to turn the tables on the BJP
Date: April 27, 2018 23:36 IST
Score: 8.76224660873413
 Seeking to turn the tables on the BJP on the issue of corruption, AICC president Rahul Gandhi sought to focus on the charges of corruption against the saffron party’s chief ministerial candidate B.S. Yeddyurappa. Addressing a rally at Gonikoppal on Friday, Mr. Gandhi dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reveal to the public the ‘corrupt record’ of Mr. Yeddyurappa. He said the PM had no moral authority to talk about corruption when former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa was the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate for the coming Assembly elections in Karnataka. “How can you talk about corruption when your chief ministerial candidate has gone to jail for corruption,” Mr. Gandhi said, and further questioned, “Will you disclose to the public the record of corruption by your chief ministerial candidate?” When Mr. Modi accuses the Siddaramaiah government of corruption, he will have Mr. Yeddyurappa standing by him on one side along with four other Ministers of his erstwhile covernment, who went to jail, Mr Gandhi said, while seeking to highlight the ‘hollowness’ of BJP’s accusations against the Siddaramaiah government. He said the Modi Government at the Centre had renamed CBI into Central Bureau of ‘illegal mining’, which had given a clean chit to the Reddy brothers, who along with Mr. Yeddyurappa had “looted” Karnataka of its wealth. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who also spoke on the occasion, said his government had instituted a probe by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) against illegal mining even though the central agencies had spared the accused. He also dared BJP leaders to come forward for a debate on corruption. “But, they don”t have the courage to come for a debate,” he said. The BJP was interested only in spreading misinformation and misguiding people. He sought to know how BJP national president Amit Shah’s son’s company’s revenues could see a meteoric rise from just ₹50,000 to a whopping ₹80 crores in one year. Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka K.C. Venugopal, and Minister for Science and Technology M.R. Seetharam were also present at the rally.


Headline: ‘Centre turning a blind eye to corruption in T.N.’
Date: September 19, 2018 00:50 IST
Score: 8.74216341972351
 Accusing the AIADMK government of engaging in corruption, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday alleged that the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre remained a mute spectator due to quid pro quo between the two parties. Addressing an anti-government demonstration in front of the Salem Collectorate, Mr. Stalin called for the ouster of both the State and the Central government at the earliest. “The entire State Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, is facing unprecedented corruption charges, which have brought much disrepute to Tamil Nadu. The fascist and communal government at the Centre has repeatedly refused to take action against the State regime, as it was getting its share,” he claimed. The agitation was aimed at highlighting the allegations of corruption facing the current regime and demanding a fair probe into the gutkha scandal. This was Mr. Stalin’s maiden participation in an agitation called by his party since assuming the post of its president.   
Walking down memory lane  Training his guns on Mr. Palaniswami, the DMK leader said the Chief Minister had become an “outstanding corrupt politician”, and vowed to unseat his government. “The Edappadi government is the most corrupt regime in the entire country, and this has affected the overall development of the State in a big way,” he alleged. Describing the Palaniswami government as a “spineless” dispensation which had surrendered the interests of the State to the BJP-led Centre, Mr. Stalin said the present regime had done nothing good for the State. “Besides the Modi regime [at the Centre], this   (good for nothing) regime in Tamil Nadu should also be thrown out,” he said, adding that the DMK will not rest until it achieved this goal. Mr. Stalin alleged that the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, Food Minister R. Kamaraj and Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar were facing specific charges of corruption. The members of the Cabinet were vying with each other to make a quick buck illegally, he alleged. The DMK leader warned that corruption in certain schemes funded by the World Bank could eventually lead to restrictions on the flow of funds from international agencies to Tamil Nadu and affect the execution of future development projects. “The State is showing undue haste in executing the Salem – Chennai green corridor project due to the huge amount of money involved,” he claimed. He took potshots at the proposed Lokayukta, saying it would be a toothless body. The DMK, if voted to power, would initiate action against all the corrupt Ministers and the officers backing them, Mr. Stalin said.


Headline: ‘CM encouraging corruption by not sacking UD Minister’
Date: December 01, 2018 01:48 IST
Score: 8.484383285045624
 The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of ‘encouraging corruption’ by allowing his Cabinet colleague to continue in office and demanded that he sack Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain.  A day after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) granted sanction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for prosecution of Mr. Jain in a disproportionate assets case, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari argued it was time Mr. Kejriwal did something against Mr. Jain, a Minister who ‘praises himself before the innocent people of Delhi’ with the help of misinformation on social media. “The people of Delhi want to know why Mr. Kejriwal does not take action against Mr. Jain, who is involved in corruption and dismiss him. He cannot do so because he is himself encouraging corruption,” Mr. Tiwari alleged. “Mr. Kejriwal’s [deceased] brother-in-law Surender Bansal took the help of his name and status for payment of forged bills connected with the works of the PWD and the Chief Minister has also been named in the FIR in this case. One of his colleague and a former Minister has already accused him of accepting a bribe of ₹2 crore,” the North-East Delhi MP alleged. Arguing that cases of corruption had been filed ‘against almost all Ministers in the present government’, including Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, the Delhi BJP chief alleged that Mr. Kejriwal, who had started his political journey fighting for a Jan Lokpal with social activist Anna Hazare, had ‘forgotten the people of Delhi’ after coming to power. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Vijender Gupta demanded that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) must in stead of ‘shamelessly defending’ Mr. Jain ‘immediately dismiss him for misuse of office, involvement in a hawala case and corrupt practices’. “The attempt to link the issue with unauthorised colonies is nothing but theatrical rhetoric to divert attention from the issue of corruption. He is guilty of gross moral turpitude and the unpardonable role in money laundering,” Mr. Gupta alleged, adding that the entire thrust on regularising unauthorised colonies seemed to stem from Mr. Jain’s ‘motive of personal profiteering’. On his part, Mr. Tiwari argued that former Chief Minister of Delhi Madan Lal Khurana had taken the first step for regularisation of 1,071 unauthorised colonies.  “I want to advise Mr. Kejriwal to stop dirty politics of falsehood and concentrate on development. The first step should be to fix the boundaries of unauthorised colonies. Even after three-and-a-half years of AAP rule, not a single notification approving unauthorised colonies has been issued... During the last three years and six months he did not remember unauthorised colonies but when Mr. Jain was charged with corruption he now remembered,” Mr. Tiwari added. 


Headline: After bypoll defeat, UP MLA’s Facebook post terms Adityanath ‘helpless’
Date: June 01, 2018 14:34 IST
Score: 8.286739826202393
 A day after the BJP lost bypoll elections in Noorpur and Kairana in Uttar Pradesh, a party MLA has posted a poem in Hindi on Facebook terming Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as “helpless,” saying the reins of power of the government were in the hands of the RSS and corrupt officials. Dalit MLA Shyam Prakash from Hardoi hints that the indifference towards party MLAs under the BJP government, and frustration of people due to corrupt officers under the Adityanath government were among the main causes for the defeats in bypolls in Gorakhpur, Phulpur and now Kairana. “In the name of Modi, you captured power, but could not work as per the wishes of the people. The reins are with the Sangh and the organization, so even your Chief Minister is helpless,” Mr. Prakash wrote on Facebook. He also says that the government has gone off track and “officer-rule” has failed. 
 “  (The people and legislators are frustrated, the officers and chairperson are corrupt),” wrote the MLA from Gopamau Assembly constituency. When contacted, Mr. Prakash was initially unwilling to expand on his poem. “The author of a poem does not do the work of interpreting it, others pen down its meaning. So it would be better if you do the interpretation,” Mr. Prakash said. However, he said he wrote the poem to highlight the prevailing official corruption in the state. “Officers are not working as per the wishes and directions of Yogi Adityanathji. No officer is listening to the common people, party workers and MLAs due to which there is resentment among them,” he said. “Be it in government offices or police stations or at the tehsil-level. Without paying bribes, no work is being done,” he said. He pointed out that the BJP had won the UP election with the slogan, ‘ ,’ but after coming to power could not check corruption. He also lamented that elected political representatives had been made “powerless,” so they were no longer able to check the officers and police at the local level. Another BJP MLA, Surendra Singh, from Bairia in Ballia has voiced a similar opinion and said that the party lost due to the corruption at the level of the tehsil, block and police station.   "Because of the corruption of the officials and their intent to trouble the public, we are losing," he said. Another BJP MLA from the state, Surendra Singh from Bairia in Ballia, has voiced a similar opinion and said that the BJP lost due to the corruption at different levels. “Because of the corruption of the officials and their intent to trouble the public, we are losing,” he said.


Headline: Coal scam: Court to award punishment to ex-Coal Secretary H.C. Gupta, others on Dec 5
Date: December 03, 2018 18:36 IST
Score: 8.107320547103882
  A Delhi court on Monday reserved for December 5 its order on sentencing of former coal secretary H.C. Gupta, convicted in a corruption case relating to allotment of coal blocks in West Bengal during the previous UPA regime at the Centre. The court will also award punishment to five others, including one retired and another serving public servant — K.S. Kropha and K.C. Samria — held guilty for various offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code. Mr. Samria’s lawyer informed that court that he has been suspended after he was convicted and taken into custody on November 30. The CBI sought a maximum of seven years imprisonment for the five convicted persons and imposition of heavy fine on the private firm. The offences for which they have been convicted entail a minimum punishment of one year in jail, going up to a maximum of seven years. Special Judge Bharat Parashar heard for over two hours the arguments on quantum of punishment advanced by the counsel for the CBI and the convicts. The court on November 30 convicted Gupta, former Joint Secretary in Ministry of Coal Kropha and the then director (CA-I) in the Ministry Samria. It had also convicted the firm, Vikash Metals and Power Limited, its managing director Vikash Patni and its authorised signatory Anand Mallick. The counsel for Gupta and four other convicted persons sought a lenient sentence. The firm’s lawyer pleaded that it should not be burdened with fine as it has gone for liquidation and it was yet to meet the liability of debts. Gupta’s counsel B.S. Mathur pleaded that he was 70 years old and suffering from various ailments. He only had his pension given by the Central government to support his family, the lawyer said, adding that he never tried to take law into his hands during the investigation or trial. The case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of Moira and Madhujore (North and South) coal blocks in West Bengal to VMPL. In September 2012, the CBI registered an FIR in the case. CBI prosecutors Sanjay Kumar, V.K. Sharma and A.P. Singh argued that maximum punishment be awarded to the convicts keeping in view the gravity of the offence and its impact on society at large. They contended that as per the CAG report, a loss of ₹1.86 lakh crore was caused to the exchequer overall in the entire coal scam. The prosecutors claimed that during the trial, attempts were made by the accused to undermine the dignity of the court, prosecutors were targeted and prosecution witnesses were harassed and humiliated by the some of the accused and their counsel. Kropha’s lawyer submitted that he was a senior citizen and his retirement benefits were under cloud. He said Kropha was the one whose efforts lead to dismantling of the screening committee and now coal blocks are allocated through the auction process. 50-year-old Samria’s counsel urged the court to show mercy while awarding the punishment as he has to support an ailing wife, aged parents and two sons who are studying. The counsel for 42-year-old Patni sought leniency saying he was the sole bread earner in the family and after allocation of coal block, his company suffered huge loss and now he was struggling to meet daily expenses. 51-year-old Mallick’s advocate also submitted that he was the only earning member in the family and there was no one else to pay for his children’s studies and that his conduct during the trial was impeccable. Gupta, who was the Coal Secretary from December 31, 2005 to November 2008, has already been convicted before this in two other cases of coal block allocation in which he had been sentenced to jail for two and three years respectively. He is out on bail in both the cases. Kropha, who was then the Joint Secretary, Ministry of coal, retired in December 2017 as the Chief Secretary of Meghalaya. He has also been convicted and sentenced to two years in another coal block allocation scam and has been on bail. Samria then held the rank of Director in the Ministry of Coal and is Joint Secretary in Ministry of Minority Affairs. He has already been convicted and sentenced to two years jail term in another case and was out on bail. All the convicted persons were taken into judicial custody after pronouncement of the order on the direction of the court. All have been held guilty for the offences under Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC, including cheating, criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct. Gupta has been accused in 12 cases of alleged irregularities in coal block allocation scam, prosecutors had said. The CBI has filed charge sheets in connection with alleged irregularities in 40 cases of coal block allocations during the UPA-1 and UPA-2 regime. On July 25, 2014, the Supreme Court had approved appointment of Additional Sessions Judge Parashar as Special Judge to exclusively deal with all coal scam cases. Till now the special court has decided six such cases. In the present case, the court had on August 19, 2016 framed charges, including cheating and criminal conspiracy against Gupta, the two public servants, the firm and its two officials. They all had pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. All the accused were out on bail. The other two coal scam cases in which Gupta was earlier convicted related to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Ltd. (KSSPL) and Vini Iron and Steel Udyog Ltd. (VISUL). Kropha and Samria were also convicted in KSSPL case.


